# Final Blog Compilation 

The final blog compilation is a two-parter: 

1) **Edit and Redesign:** Here you will work with your peer partner and respond to their feedback about your blog in a courteous manner. You will have the opportunity to redesign certain elements of your previous blogs and provide reasonable edits to the content. To receive full credit for this, you should make a good faith effort to address the constructive criticism provided by partner and/or the instructor's feedback. This should mean that you are not only changing written content as needed, but also trying to improve upon previously published visualizations. 

2) **Final Project:** The final project will require that you tackle a question that you have about a social phenomenon, find a dataset, and then choose one of three pathways to explain the relationship that you are looking at among a broad audience. Similar to the first short form blog, your intent is to make a question of interest to social scientists important to the public. You can then choose one of the following pathways: 

  a. *Storyteller*: This path will require that your visualizations are woven in with an interesting story about the social question that you are interested in. This will be like a short/medium-length journalistic piece, where you explain a relationship with both visualizations and research that you have done (construed broadly). You should use about 1,200 words to describe what's going on-- not just between the data and in the visualizations, but tell a story. In addition to the story, you should incorporate about 6-8 different visualizations as well as a diverse but trustworthy set of citations that motivate your investigation. 
  
  b. *Designer*: This path is visualization heavy. Here you should plan to make about 8-10 separate visualizations that look at your question in different ways. You should plan to have about 300-400 words that signpost what we are looking at and describe the contours of the relationship. If you choose this pathway, you should expect that most of your effort should be on creating visualizations that are very on brand for you, and that do a lot of work on their own. Most of the writing should be in snippets or introductory. Alternatively, you can also choose to make two separate infographics that nest your visualizations together in a meaningful way. If you choose to create infographics, plan to write a bit less (200-250) and make 6-8 visualizations. 
  
  c. *Programmer*: This path will require more coding and data work. Here, you can create a data dashboard in Shiny. You should plan to have about 4-5 different options available to interact with in your dashboard as well as about 200 words on the intro page that introduce your question, the dataset, and what you have tried to achieve with the dashboard. 
  
Citations for the final project should be done two ways. If you are citing your dataset, an academic article, a news article, or some other reading that you did to motivate your interest in the topic, please provide those citations as a hyperlink in-text. The packages that you use for this and other assignments should be cited and compiled into a pdf or some other documentation that you attach to your website. 
